React.js - it is a front end JS library that has become a goto framewrok for building user interface

why React?  -->  develops single page application ,that is no reloading of the page
1. Focuses on View Layer of an application(consisting of all the parts visible to user)

2. Easy to learn than Angular 

3. JSX allows easy implementation of complex UI components

4. Virtual DOM (virtual copy of DOM Tree created by web browsera that react creates)

5. React offers usable components 

JSX (basically html with some changes)
also known as javascript XML is a syntax extension for JS.
It is developed to enhance the functionalities of HTML Stuctures in javascript.
with JSX there is no requirement for separate html and js codes.



Node.js
it is an open source platform built on chrome's javascript runtime for building scalable network websites and applications

*Babel
It is a widely used javascript compiler that allow us to write modern js code and transpile
into a version that can run in all environments(inlcuding modern and old browsers).

*API(Application programming interface)     
1. API is a set of protocols to enable two diff applications to communicate with each other.
2. Each application has its own and unique API key that they use to communicate with other applications.
   Some of the applications doesn't have API key, they are free.

Why API are used?
So that an application can not access the complete data/info of other applications they are willing to connect to.
Through API an app will be able to only necessary info(info that other application allow them to access).


*React js coding
1. Only one element can be returned unless in html
To return multiple elements we use JSX fragment
eg. <>
    ...
    ..
    ..
    </>

2. Using JSX instead of class(html) we write className
and instead of For(html) we use htmlFor

3. Name of a variable is written in {...}

4. React sanitizes the external html

5. Babel compiles JSX

6. While sharing your react app , make sure you do not share node_modules 
file in the react app as it contains all the dependencies. Delete it, and share it.
 
It can be created again using command.....npm install

7. Bootstrap css and js CDN link can be addded in index.html file to access UI components of the Bootstrap

8. Do not store private data in public folder of your react app

*Components in react
These are the diff pieces of javascript functions that take arbitary inputs called 
props and return react elements describing what would appear on the screen

*Props in React
props stands for properties in react which are used as arbitary input to the components

Props and components can help in easy changes in the website.

*Proptype
Proptypes: Tells us about the type of our prop.

*Default props
Incase of not passing the props, we can set deafult values of our props my using Default props


*State in react js(A component's memory)
State is the built-in react object that is used to contain data or info about the component

*Hooks in react js
Hooks allow us to use benefits of a class without actually using a class
                                        or
Let us use state and other react features wihtout wriring a class(as functions are trending these days)




























































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































